add finetuning llama 7b tutorial (#37)
GoogleCloudPlatform/ai-on-gke: finetuning-llama-7b-on-l4/README.md

# Tutorial: Finetuning Llama 7b on GKE using L4 GPUs

> We’ll walk through fine tuning a Llama 2 7B model using GKE using 8 x L4 GPUs. L4 GPUs are suitable for many use cases beyond serving models. We will demonstrate how the L4 GPU is a great option for fine tuning LLMs, at a fraction of the cost of using a higher end GPU.

Author: I added it to the beginning.

> Let’s get started and finetune Llama 2 7B on the [dell-research-harvard/AmericanStories](https://huggingface.co/datasets/dell-research-harvard/AmericanStories) dataset using GKE. You will get to do the following:

Author: seems `fine-tune` is used by HuggingFace as well. So will go with that..

*   Create a GKE cluster with an autoscaling L4 GPU nodepool

> *   Run a K8s Job to download Llama 2 7B and finetune using L4 GPUs 

Author: done everywhere

![architecture](image.png "architecture")

## Creating the GKE cluster with L4 nodepools

### Prerequisites
*   A terminal with `kubectl` and `gcloud` installed. Cloud Shell works great!
*   L4 GPUs quota to be able to run additional 8 L4 GPUs
*   Request access to Meta Llama models by submitting the [request access form](https://ai.meta.com/resources/models-and-libraries/llama-downloads/)
*   Agree to the Llama 2 terms on the [Llama 2 7B HF](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf) model in HuggingFace

> Let’s start by setting a few environment variables that will be used throughout this post. You should modify these variables to meet your environment and needs. 

Author: yeah it was weird how this was structured. I changed it so that prereqs is it's own heading before the tutorial starts

Run the following commands to set the env variables and make sure to replace `<my-project-id>`:

```bash
gcloud config set project <my-project-id>
export PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config get project)
export REGION=us-central1
export BUCKET_NAME=${PROJECT_ID}-llama-l4
export SERVICE_ACCOUNT="l4-demo@${PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
export IMAGE=gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/llama2-finetune
```

Note: You might have to rerun the export commands if for some reason you reset your shell and the variables are no longer set. This can happen for example when your Cloud Shell disconnects.

Create the GKE cluster by running:
```bash
gcloud container clusters create l4-demo --location ${REGION} \
  --workload-pool ${PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog \
  --enable-image-streaming --enable-shielded-nodes \
  --shielded-secure-boot --shielded-integrity-monitoring \
  --enable-ip-alias \

>   --node-locations=$REGION-a \

Author: I went through the guide and fixed this everywhere

  --workload-pool=${PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog \
  --addons GcsFuseCsiDriver
```

> (Optional) In environments where external IP addresses are not allowed you can add the following arguments to the create GKU cluster command:

Author: fixed

```bash

>   --no-enable-master-authorized-networks --enable-ip-alias \

Author: fixed

    --enable-private-nodes  --master-ipv4-cidr 172.16.0.32/28
```

Let’s create a nodepool for our finetuning which will use 8 L4 GPUs per VM:

Create the `g2-standard-96` nodepool by running:
```bash
gcloud container node-pools create g2-standard-96 --cluster l4-demo \
  --accelerator type=nvidia-l4,count=8,gpu-driver-version=latest \
  --machine-type g2-standard-96 \
  --ephemeral-storage-local-ssd=count=8 \
  --enable-autoscaling --enable-image-streaming \
  --num-nodes=0 --min-nodes=0 --max-nodes=3 \
  --shielded-secure-boot \
  --shielded-integrity-monitoring \
  --node-locations $REGION-a,$REGION-b --region $REGION
```

> NOTE: The `--node-locations` flag might have to be adjusted based on which region you choose. Please take a look at which zones the [L4 GPUs are available](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/gpus/gpu-regions-zones) if you change the region to something other than `us-central1`.

Author: fixed

> NOTE: The `--node-locations` flag might have to be adjusted based on which region you choose. Please take a look at which zones the [L4 GPUs are available](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/gpus/gpu-regions-zones) if you change the region to something other than `us-central1`.

Author: fixed

The nodepool has been created and is scaled down to 0 nodes. So you are not paying for any GPUs until you start launching K8s Pods that request GPUs.

## Run a K8s job to finetune Llama 2 7B

> Finetuning requires a base model and a dataset. For this post, the [dell-research-harvard/AmericanStories](https://huggingface.co/datasets/dell-research-harvard/AmericanStories) dataset will be used to finetune the [Llama 2 7B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf) base model. GCS will be used for storing the base model. GKE with GCSFuse is used to transparently save the finetuned model to GCS. This provides a cost efficient way to store and serve the model and only pay for the storage used by the model.

Author: I store a fully merged model because not all other libraries support LoRA. I think it often over complicates things. I added a sentence to explain this when we introduce finetune.py

> Finetuning requires a base model and a dataset. For this post, the [dell-research-harvard/AmericanStories](https://huggingface.co/datasets/dell-research-harvard/AmericanStories) dataset will be used to finetune the [Llama 2 7B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf) base model. GCS will be used for storing the base model. GKE with GCSFuse is used to transparently save the finetuned model to GCS. This provides a cost efficient way to store and serve the model and only pay for the storage used by the model.

Author: I had a lot of issues when using HuggingFace models where I only had the LoRA layer that referred to a base model.

I wrote this in the guide:
The fine-tuned model initially are separate LoRA weights. In the `finetune.py` script, the base model and LoRA weights are merged
so the fine-tuned model can be used as a standalone model. This does utilize more storage than needed,
but in return you get better compatibility with different libraries for serving.

```bash
gcloud storage buckets create gs://${BUCKET_NAME}
```

The model loading Job will write to GCS. So let’s create a Google Service Account that has read and write permissions to the GCS bucket. Then create a K8s Service Account named `l4-demo` that is able to use the Google Service Account.

To do this, first create a new Google Service Account:
```bash
gcloud iam service-accounts create l4-demo
```

Assign the required GCS permissions to the Google Service Account:
```bash
gcloud storage buckets add-iam-policy-binding gs://${BUCKET_NAME} \
  --member="serviceAccount:${SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role=roles/storage.admin
```

Allow the K8s Service Account `l4-demo` in the `default` namespace to use the Google Service Account:
```bash
gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding ${SERVICE_ACCOUNT} \
  --role roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser \
  --member "serviceAccount:${PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog[default/l4-demo]"
```

Create a new K8s Service Account:
```bash
kubectl apply -f - << EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: l4-demo
  namespace: default
  annotations:
    iam.gke.io/gcp-service-account: l4-demo@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com
EOF

> ```

Author: fixed, much cleaner. Thank you very much!

Hugging face requires authentication to download the[ Llama 2 7B HF](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf) model, which means an access token is required to download the model.

> You can get your access token from [huggingface.com > Settings > Access Tokens](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens). Afterwards, set your HuggingFace token as an environment variable:

Author: good point, we can at least minimize it not being in the end-users env variables.

> You can get your access token from [huggingface.com > Settings > Access Tokens](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens). Afterwards, set your HuggingFace token as an environment variable:

Author: fixed

```bash
export HF_TOKEN=<paste-your-own-token>
```

Create a Secret to store your HuggingFace token which will be used by the K8s job:
```bash
kubectl create secret generic l4-demo --from-literal="HF_TOKEN=$HF_TOKEN"
```

> Run a K8s Job to download the the Llama 2 7B model to the bucket which is mounted to the K8s Pod:

Author: fixed

```bash

> kubectl apply -f - << EOF

Author: I wrote this as a guide people can run through without having to clone repos and switch contexts, mostly because it's originally written for a blog post.

I think now that I'm moving it to this repo it does make sense to have finetune.py, Dockerfile and job manifests to be normal files. The first step would then be cloning the repo. I tried to get away with least amount of effort to convert my blog post in Gdoc to this repo. Your comments are all very valid and I think I should just do it.

apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: model-loader
  namespace: default
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-container: loader
        gke-gcsfuse/volumes: "true"
        gke-gcsfuse/memory-limit: 400Mi
        gke-gcsfuse/ephemeral-storage-limit: 30Gi
    spec:
      restartPolicy: OnFailure
      containers:
      - name: loader
        image: python:3.11
        command:
        - /bin/bash
        - -c
        - |
          cat > download-model.py << EOF
          from huggingface_hub import snapshot_download
          model_id="meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf"

>           snapshot_download(repo_id=model_id, local_dir="/gcs-mount/llama2-7b",

Author: yes it uses the env variable automatically

                            local_dir_use_symlinks=False, revision="main",
                            ignore_patterns=["*.safetensors", "model.safetensors.index.json"])
          EOF

>           pip install huggingface_hub

Author: the other image is very large because it has too many dependencies so prefer to keep them separate

>           python3 download-model.py

Author: I think the whole download job isn't clean but it works hehe. I agree it would be slightly cleaner to pipe it directly into python. Gonna give that a try.

        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        env:
        # kubectl create secret generic l4-demo --from-literal="HF_TOKEN=$HF_TOKEN"
        - name: HUGGING_FACE_HUB_TOKEN
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: l4-demo
              key: HF_TOKEN
        volumeMounts:
        - name: gcs-fuse-csi-ephemeral
          mountPath: /gcs-mount
      serviceAccountName: l4-demo
      volumes:
      - name: gcs-fuse-csi-ephemeral
        csi:
          driver: gcsfuse.csi.storage.gke.io
          volumeAttributes:
            bucketName: $BUCKET_NAME

>             mountOptions: "implicit-dirs"

Author: oh I see what you're saying, there are 2 jobs so could re-use the same PV that uses GCS fuse across the 2 jobs. I think I rather skip doing that for now since I had a lot of trouble getting GCS fuse to work so don't want to mess around with it too much.

>             mountOptions: "implicit-dirs"

Author: I think this will help because then I no longer need a variable in the job spec itself. I'm going to try this. Great suggestion.

EOF
```

Give it a minute to start running, once up you can watch the logs of the job by running:
```bash
kubectl logs -f -l job-name=model-loader
```

Once the job has finished you can verify the model has been downloaded by running:
```bash
gcloud storage ls -l gs://$BUCKET_NAME/llama2-7b/
```

Let’s write our finetuning job code by using the HuggingFace library for training.

Create a file named `finetune.py` with the following content:
```python
from pathlib import Path

from datasets import load_dataset, concatenate_datasets
import transformers

> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM, TrainingArguments

Author: fixed

from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, prepare_model_for_kbit_training
import torch

# /gcs-mount will mount the GCS bucket created earlier
model_path = "/gcs-mount/llama2-7b"
finetuned_model_path = "/gcs-mount/llama2-7b-american-stories"

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_path, local_files_only=True)
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
            model_path, torch_dtype=torch.float16, device_map="auto", trust_remote_code=True)

dataset = load_dataset("dell-research-harvard/AmericanStories",
    "subset_years",
    year_list=["1809", "1810", "1811", "1812", "1813", "1814", "1815"]
)
dataset = concatenate_datasets(dataset.values())

if tokenizer.pad_token is None:
    tokenizer.add_special_tokens({'pad_token': '[PAD]'})
    model.resize_token_embeddings(len(tokenizer))

data = dataset.map(lambda x: tokenizer(
    x["article"], padding='max_length', truncation=True))

> lora_config2 = LoraConfig(

Author: because I copy pasted without paying close attention like you do 🤦

> lora_config2 = LoraConfig(

Author: fixed

 r=16,
 lora_alpha=32,
 lora_dropout=0.05,
 bias="none",
 task_type="CAUSAL_LM"

> )

Reviewer: Are `target_modules` needed, or is there a sensible default? This article https://www.anyscale.com/blog/fine-tuning-llms-lora-or-full-parameter-an-in-depth-analysis-with-llama-2 has some recommend hyperparametrs to consider optimizing this.

Author: I think it's better to not set so people can take this job and use it for other models as well. The default looks works for various models but once you set target_modules to something special you need to adjust it for different models. Cool article you shared though, I wasn't aware that some people seem to get better results by targeting more modules.

I think sticking with the sensible default is best for now. For example, this same code could be used to finetune falcon model, but once you hard code the target_modules it won't work for falcon anymore.

model = prepare_model_for_kbit_training(model)

# add LoRA adaptor
model = get_peft_model(model, lora_config2)
model.print_trainable_parameters()

training_args = TrainingArguments(
        per_device_train_batch_size=1,
        gradient_accumulation_steps=4,
        warmup_steps=2,
        num_train_epochs=1,
        learning_rate=2e-4,
        fp16=True,
        logging_steps=1,
        output_dir=finetuned_model_path,
        optim="paged_adamw_32bit",
)

trainer = transformers.Trainer(
    model=model,
    train_dataset=data,
    args=training_args,
    data_collator=transformers.DataCollatorForLanguageModeling(tokenizer, mlm=False),
)
model.config.use_cache = False  # silence the warnings. Please re-enable for inference!

trainer.train()

# Merge the fine tuned layer with the base model and save it

> model = model.merge_and_unload()

Reviewer: Per earlier comment, can this step be skipped to optimize storage?

Author: Yes it could but I rather not. I've had too much pain dealing with LoRA layers that are separated from the base model.

I will add that this step can be removed if you want to only save the LoRA layer. I've also added an explanation below in the tutorial.

model.save_pretrained(finetuned_model_path)
tokenizer.save_pretrained(finetuned_model_path)
# Beginning of story in the dataset
prompt = """
In the late action between Generals

> 

Reviewer: why the blank lines?

Author: I ported it over from a gdoc and got lazy

Author: no nvm, this is because in the dataset that's how the stories are written

Brown and Riall, it appears our men fought
with a courage and perseverance, that would
"""
input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
gen_tokens = model.generate(
    input_ids,
    do_sample=True,
    temperature=0.8,
    max_length=100,
)
print(tokenizer.batch_decode(gen_tokens)[0])
```

Let’s review the high level of what we’ve included in the Fine Tuning file above. First we load the base model from GCS using GCS Fuse. Then we load the dataset from HuggingFace. The finetuning uses PEFT which stands for Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning. It is a technique that allows you to fine tune an LLM using a smaller number of parameters, which makes it more efficient, flexible and less computationally expensive.

> Next, create a container image that will run <code>[finetune.py](finetune.py)</code>. Create a file named <code>Dockerfile</code> with the following content:

Reviewer: nit: `finetune.py` doesn't exist in the repo, so the link is broken

Author: Fixed. This was an issue with the conversion from gdoc. The file is created as part of the guide and won't be in the repo. I've fixed it to just refer to the filename instead of it being a link.

> ```Dockerfile

Reviewer: I'd also make the docker file a separate file.

Author: you've convinced me ha! I'm going to do it. Good call.

FROM nvidia/cuda:12.2.0-runtime-ubuntu22.04

RUN apt-get update && \
    apt-get -y --no-install-recommends install python3 python3-pip git && \

>     rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

Reviewer: Is there a hugging face docker image that would work instead? Maybe https://hub.docker.com/r/huggingface/peft-gpu?

Author: that would make this guide a lot cleaner, we could just directly run the code from a configmap and no need to build a new image: https://github.com/huggingface/peft/blob/main/docker/peft-gpu/Dockerfile

lets chat tomorrow about this

# Tutorial: Finetuning Llama 7b on GKE using L4 GPUs

> Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable progress in recent years from answering your questions in an informative way to generating code. However, achieving accuracy in LLMs is still a challenging task, especially in a cost-effective way. We are proud to offer high-performance, cost-efficient, and scalable AI inference offerings. 

Reviewer 2: The last sentence in this paragraph makes a sudden pivot from discussing the challenges of achieving high accuracy when training LLMs, to our inference offering, then in the following paragraph returns back to fine-tuning. I think we should remove the sentence introducing our inference offerings, since this tutorial is about fine-tuning and that sentence is placed such that it sounds like it's introducing inference as the topic of the tutorial.

Author: I'm not sure who added this paragraph but I think we should remove this whole paragraph. note I copied this over from a blog post I've been working on

> Earlier this year we announced General Availability of G2 VMs, powered by NVIDIA L4 Ada Lovelace. G2 is our most versatile and flexible accelerator enabling 2-4x performance improvements over our prior generation, T4. G2 is well-suited for a variety of use cases including a cost-effective option for fine-tuning LLM  inference models. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Earlier this year we announced General Availability of G2 VMs, powered by NVIDIA L4 Ada Lovelace. G2 is our most versatile and flexible accelerator enabling 2-4x performance improvements over our prior generation, T4. G2 is well-suited for a variety of use cases including a cost-effective option for fine-tuning LLMs. 
```
